A world completely swollowed
in white...
What is this place? What am I
doing here?
No, I remember... I was
with her.
We were all alone in this in
this sad, desolate world...
But we were going some place,
weren't we? We had something
very important to do...
If I had known that this was
going to happen I wouldn't have
taken her with me.
In the end, all I did was
make her suffer.
[Tomoya] That's right. It all
started when I spoke to her that
day.
Maybe I shouldn't have
said anything...
If she hadn't met me, then
should wouldn't...
I don't want this to be
the end of our journey.
I don't want to stop now.
Even if there's no hope for
us, I don't want to accept
that.
I don't want to let her fall
asleep in a cold, lonely place
like this.
Hey...
You're still there, aren't you?
Of course I am. I'll stay
by your side forever.
Thank you... so much.
Huh?
I can hear your voice.
After all this time.
Really?!
I feel my humanity
slipping away.
I think that's why I can
finally hear you.
I had a dream just now, lying
in the snow.
I found out a lot of things.
Things about you... things about
me...
Want me to tell you?
Mm-hm.
We were from the same world.
You and I.
We were very close to each
other long ago.
No, actually, we're still close.
Even now.
Wait, then that means we
don't belong in this world after
all.
Let's go back together.
Sorry... that sounds wonderful
but I have to stay here.
Why?
Because I'm not just another
part of this world, I'm the
world itself...
I don't understand.
You said we'd leave thisworld
together, didn't you? You
promised!
If I leave this place, then the
entire world will disappear.
If that happens, all the lights
will turn from hope to sorrow.
Lights? The lights that are
floating in the air?
Yes. Each one of them
representsthe hope of someone in
the other world.
You were one of those
lights yourself.
The world's so close yet so
far away. Do you remember now?
We've always been there, youand
I. In the same town. In the same
place.
I see. It's been so long that
you must've forgotten.
Another world... and there's
another me there?
You haven't realized it yet?
Even though you came from
theother world, even though you
exist there now,
we were able to meet because you
overcame the distance between
our worlds.
That was more than enough
for me.
Soon you're going to disappear
from this place and wake up in
the other world.
But don't worry. Onceyou're
there, you'll meet many
wonderful people and experience
many wonderful things...
And finally, you'll see me
again, too.
We'll meet again? In the
other world?
Just as people's hopes andwishes
appear as lights in this world,
my hopes and wishes appear as
lights in their world.
I'm sure the other you has
seen them, just as you have.
Although each light may be
smallin itself, if you gather
enough of them together, then
something truly amazing can
Something miraculous.
[humming dango song]
Wait. I know that song.
You should. It's the song you
always sang to me...
Until we meet again, Daddy.
NAGISA!
Nagisa!
Nagisa, I'm right here! Don't
leave me!
You had me worried...
For a second there, I was afraid
you wouldn't talk to me.
I'm sorry...
At first you didn't
say anything.
I was starting to think you
might keep walking away.
Like you wished we'd never met
in the first place.
I hope that wasn't true though.
[Nagisa] Meeting you was the
best thing that ever happened to
me.
[Nagisa] You made me so happy.
[Tomoya] Nagisa...
[Nagisa] I don't want you to be
lost or afraid or anything like
that.
From here on out, I know things
might be hard sometimes,
but no matter what, please don't
ever regret the time we spent
together.
Is that too much to ask?
I won't regret a thing.
Thank you...
If you'd like, shall I take
you to the place in town where
wishes come true?
My long journey has finally
come to an end...
N-Nagisa...
Nagisa...
[sobbing]
[Nagisa] Tomoya...
Nagisa!
Is something wrong, Tomoya?
You look upset.
We're really... we're
really together now, right?
Of course we are. We'll always
be together. Just like we
promised, over and over again.
I'm not going anywhere.
That's right. Just like we said.
[Yagi] Okazaki...
You don't need to worry about
the health of the baby or the
mother.
Good job! Congratulations!
[Akio] Congratulations to
you too.
You did good.
[Sanae] Tomoya...
How would you like to give
little Ushio her first bath?
Uh... sure!
[Yagi] Support her head with
your right hand.
Cover her ears, so she doesn't
get any water in them.
That's right, nice and slow.
Doesn't that feel good, Ushio?
Now don't dip her head in, just
yet. You need to wipe her down
with gauze first.
There you go. Daddy's getting
you all clean. Aren't you a
happy baby?
[Nagisa] Good job, Tomoya.
You did great.
Look at that! As healthy as
can be!
When she gets bigger, I hope
she's as strong as she is now.
[Tomoya] She will be.
She'll have a strong body and a
strong mind, too. Don't worry!
Okay.
Hey Tomoya... Look outside.
Open the curtain.
[Nagisa] It's so pretty.
[in unison] Huh?
What? You mean the snow?
No wait, this is...
[Nagisa] [singing] Dango,
dango, dango, dango...
Dango, dango, Dango family...
Dango, dango, dango, dango...
Dango, Dango Family...
[Nagisa] Sometimes I wonder,
what if this town was alive?
What if it had thoughts and
feelings like one of us?
If it did, I think it would
want to make the people who live
here happy...
When I look at how things
haveturned out for you and me, I
feel like the town might've
brought us together.
That it might've made this
miracle happen.
But even if it's wonderful, I
guess it's not really a miracle,
is it?
After all, this sort of thing
happens every day.
People who live here lovethis
town. And they find happiness
here all the time.
Even if it doesn't have
thoughts, I think this town is
still alive in its own way.
I think it still loves the
people who live here.
I've grown up in this town.
All of my memories and dreams
are a part of it.
In a way, I feel like it
raised me.
[Tomoya] So this town is like
one big family, huh?
[Nagisa] Yup. A big
Dango Family.
[Tomoya] Yeah. I think I'm
finally starting to get
that.
@[♪♪]
[Kouko] Don't be so upset.
[Fuko] Fuko is very upset.
That guy was so rude. I'm not a
grade schooler. I'm a grown
lady!
Grown lady or not, you're still
short. You can't blame him for
making an honest mistake.
I may be short, but my mature
personality should've made it
clear to him!
Fu-chan, I don't think your
personality is as mature as you
think it is.
Those words sting. Like an icy
dagger through my heart.
Fuko is traumatized now. Fuko is
damanged goods!
Don't say strange things
like that.
You're not Fuko's mom!
Ah, maybe that's it.
People probably think you're
a grade-schooler
because you call yourself "Fuko"
like that all the time.
Then what should Fuko call
herself? "This girl"? Maybe.
Yeah, this girl is grown up in
more ways than one. Like that?
That so dirty!
You really shouldn't complain
when you're the one who said it,
not me.
You call yourself "I"
sometimes, so just go with that.
"I", huh? I guess.
Listen up boys, I'm grown up in
more ways than one. Like that?
That's so dirty!
I hate to break it to you,
but that's going to sound
dirty no matter how you said it.
Whatever. Fuko's getting hungry.
[Kouko] Given up already, huh?
[Fuko] I want to go to a
family restaurant.
[Kouko] Okay. We'll go after
your doctor's appointment.
I don't need a doctor!
There's nothing wrong with me!
It's settled! Let's go to
eat now!
[Kouko] Not so fast!
[Fuko] But we have to go fast
or they're going to run
out of hamburger steak!
Don't worry about it. I'm
sure they have plenty.
What if everyone in town's
beeneating hamburger steak three
times a day?! Then what'll I
do?!
Trust me, I don't think that's
going to be an issue.
[Kouko] Come on,
we're almost at the hospital.
If they run out of hamburger
steak, I'll make you some
myself.
But will you put it on a metal
plate so it doesn't get cold?
Of course, anything you want.
Then I guess I have no choice...
I know you don't feel like
anything's wrong, but just to
make sure,
you have to have a little
check-up every now and then.
Please, just humor me. I'll feel
a lot better if I know that
you're healthy. Okay?
I didn't know I was making
you worry so much.
Huh? Nothing for you to get
upset about.
You can dissect Fuko if
it'll make you feel better!
Fu-chan! Stop!
Come on! You're walking like an
old lady. Let's get a move on
already!
Quite the handful aren't you?
Now what's gotten into
you, Fu-chan?
I smell something.
Hamburger steaks?
You ruined it! That's not
what you're supposed to say!
Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't realize
you were trying to tell a joke.
It's not a joke.
All right. Now I'm going
to say it again
and this time you ask
me what I smell.
Okay, okay.
I smell something!
What do you smell?
Thank you for asking,
dear sister.
I think this smell is a
cute smell!
Okay, but that doesn't answer
my question.
I was hoping you could catch
my meaning.
Meaning?
Don't you get it? This is art.
You're talking nonsense
again, Fu-chan.
Do you even know what
you're saying?
I guess since you were
a school teacher,
you have a tough time
thinking outside the box.
Sure I was a teacher. Do you
know what I taught?
Art. Like you said.
In that case, try to get a
grasp of what I'm saying.
I don't think there's
anything to grasp.
Hmm you think so?
In that case, let me try to put
it in simpler terms.
I'll start over and you ask me
what I smell again.
Okay. Got it.
Someone is coming!
[Kouko] Huh?
[Fuko] Don't say "huh"!
I thought you changed
the scenario!
Was I supposed to say "what
do you smell" that time too?
That's right.
But that would seem a little
unnatural, don't you think?
Just go with it! I promise I'll
follow you, okay?
Now take it from the top.
[Kouko] Okay.
Someone is coming!
Oh! What do you smell?
I see, she probably came to
see Fuko.
You just said that you were
going to follow me, remember?
But the point here is that
someone came to see me!
You're supposed to act more
surprised in a scenario like
this!
Dear God, I know my sister is
strange, but I hope she can make
friends...
Now, from the top!
You're wish is my command.
Someone is coming!
Oh! What do you smell?
I see, she probably came
to see Fuko!
Oh? That's quite the surprise!
Mmm. She smells cute.
This conversation doesn't
make any sense!
She's sleeping right over there.
She's waiting for someone to
find her and wake her up.
This is my chance...
I'd better hurry!
Fu-chan, where are you going?
Don't just stand there, if you
want to see her, come with me!
She's under that tree
right there!
Who's under the tree?
Fuko doesn't know. But she's
very cute, whoever she is!
[Kouko] Fu-chan... Fu-chan!
Really. What am I going to do
with her?
[Fuko] Are you there?
It's me, Fuko.
You probably don't know who I am
since we haven't met before.
What's your name?
I bet you and I can be good
friends. Come on let's play
together.
This is no time to be sleeping.
After all, the fun is just
getting started!
If you say so, but it took me a
long time to make friends with
everyone my junior year.
But you didn't make any new
friends in class, huh?
I couldn't really talk to
anyone, so it was kind of lonely
I guess.
[Sanae] Just open up a little
and I'm sure you can make plenty
of friends.
I'll try.
[Nagisa] It was my
first time talking to her,
so I was a little nervous.
Tomoya Okazaki. What's yours?